Deployments, and getting called up as a reservist and seeing the active
duty in a combat zone are all at of the behest of the national security
apparatus. The commander in chief the president of the United
states has the ability to order you wherever you are needed. And rather
than something to be astued, or feared or worried about, I think
deployment should be a thing of a goal people in your career want to
be deployed so they can get activity and that will allow them to achieve
wht they want to achieve. Even those who are reservist frequently
want to get the job done and so they will look for a chance to
deploy. Let me tell you a quick story. During the first Iraq war the
commander of naval security group wanted to prove to his superiors
that he really did not need reservists, so he issued orders that no
reservist would be called up for the cryptologic community in the navy
during the Iraq war. That was a huge disappointment to my people
in Denver, huge disappointment. So I went down the hall to the intelligence
community because they had been called up and some of the guys
had gone to Iraq, and I said "look we've all got high level clearances,
we're all college educated, most of us have advanced degrees,
we're technically competent, we know what we're doing we probably could
function as intelligence officers if you want us to" and he said
"that's great because I got a draft coming home from Iraq right now
and we don't have enough people to replace him and I hate to send
some of these guys back for the second tour, but we'll take your entire
boardroom, that is all your officers and most your chief petty officers
if they want to go". One hundred percent of my officers said
"I want to do that", the navy will not order me to do that I want to
volunteer I want to go do that part of my job. So that's why I think
you should look forward to deployment not regret one or trying to
avoid one.